utilities/README.md, before:

# Assay.Works Data Sync Instructions

Thank you for your help in uploading data as part of this project! Please see the following instructions on uploading data to the Google Cloud bucket.

1. Ensure `service-account.json` key is found within the same directory where script is run.
1. Prepare data to be uploaded under `./data` directory relative to `gsutil_sync.sh` location.
1. Run the `gsutil_sync.sh` script (for example: `sh ./gsutil_sync.sh`).

Please reference the following directory tree structure for an example of what the path should contain:

```shell
.
├── README.md
├── data
│   └── <data to be synchronized>
├── gsutil_sync.sh
└── service-account.json
```

## Additional Notes

- __Alternative data upload path__: if an alternative data upload path is preferred, please reference and update `gsutil_sync.sh` as follows:
  - Original: `gsutil rsync ./data gs://waylab-assayworks-bucket`
  - Updated: `gsutil rsync <new data location> gs://waylab-assayworks-bucket`

Commit message:

Move to .bat file and add Terraform role for bucket permissions (#2)
* changes for assayworks project specifics

* update shell script with bucket name

* detemplatize; gsutil instructions

* assay works docs context; simplify source dir

* bucket.get svc-acct role binding

* move gsutil work from .sh to .bat file

Co-Authored-By: Faisal Alquaddoomi <faisal.alquaddoomi@cuanschutz.edu>

* linting; remove shellcheck

* rename gsutil file, remove .sh file

* remove shellcheck

Co-authored-by: Faisal Alquaddoomi <faisal.alquaddoomi@cuanschutz.edu>

utilities/README.md, after:

# Assay.Works Data Sync Instructions

Thank you for your help in uploading data as part of this project! Please see the following instructions on uploading data to the Google Cloud bucket.

1. Ensure `service-account.json` key is found within the same directory where script is run.
1. Prepare data to be uploaded under `./data` directory relative to `gsutil_sync.bat` location.
1. Run the `gsutil_sync.bat` script by double clicking it or from a command line prompt (for example, by typing: `gsutil_sync.bat` and hitting the enter key).


Please reference the following directory tree structure for an example of what the path should contain:

```shell
.
├── README.md
├── data
│   └── <data to be synchronized>
├── gsutil_sync.bat
└── service-account.json
```

## Additional Notes

- __Alternative data upload path__: if an alternative data upload path is preferred, please reference and update `gsutil_sync.bat` as follows:
  - Original: `gsutil rsync data gs://waylab-assayworks-bucket`
  - Updated: `gsutil rsync <new data location> gs://waylab-assayworks-bucket`
- __Additional gsutil rsync options__: additional options for the `gsutil rsync` command may be found from the following link: <https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/gsutil/commands/rsync>
