utilities/durbinlab/README.md, before:

# Assay.Works Data Sync Instructions

Thank you for your help in uploading data as part of this project!
Please see the following instructions on uploading data to the Google Cloud bucket.

__Note:__ The gsutil command provided within the script makes use of the `-m` option for multi-threading performance increases and the `-r` option for recursive data transfer.

1. Ensure `service-account.json` key is found within the same directory where script is run.
1. Prepare data to be uploaded under `./data` directory relative to `gsutil_sync.bat` location.
1. Run the `gsutil_sync.bat` script by double clicking it or from a command line prompt (for example, by typing: `gsutil_sync.bat` and hitting the enter key).

Please reference the following directory tree structure for an example of what the path should contain:

```shell
.
├── README.md
├── data
│   └── <data to be synchronized>
├── gsutil_sync.bat
└── service-account.json
```

## Additional Notes

- __Alternative data upload path__: if an alternative data upload path is preferred, please reference and update `gsutil_sync.bat` as follows:
  - Original: `gsutil rsync data gs://waylab-assayworks-bucket`
  - Updated: `gsutil rsync <new data location> gs://waylab-assayworks-bucket`
- __Additional gsutil rsync options__: additional options for the `gsutil rsync` command may be found from the following link: <https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/gsutil/commands/rsync>

Commit message:

update readme steps; markdown linting

utilities/durbinlab/README.md, after:

# Durbin Lab Data Upload Instructions

Thank you for your help in uploading data as part of this project!
Please see the following instructions on uploading data to the Google Cloud bucket.

We suggest using [`rclone`](https://rclone.org) to assist with data uploads to the Google Cloud bucket related to this project.

1. [Install rclone](https://rclone.org/install/).

1. [Configure rclone with Google Cloud Storage](https://rclone.org/googlecloudstorage/).

   - Note: if using a Google account, make sure to authenticate using this account when prompted within the web browser (the terminal will prompt through the browser)

1. Test access to Google Cloud Storage bucket with the configured rclone access using, for example, `rclone ls <configured_name>:waylab-durbinlab-bucket`

1. Synchronize data found within bucket by using [`rclone` commands](https://rclone.org/commands/).

   - Please note: many rclone commands are recursive __by default__ with options to disable.
   - An example with the sync command: `rclone sync <data source>  <configured_name>:waylab-durbinlab-bucket`
